This study is done to understand the effect of carbonation on certain transport properties of Limestone Calcined Clay Cement (LC3) concrete. Carbonation is chosen as the project focus since the performance of new cement systems with high substitution of Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) such as LC3 and Geopolymer Concrete is fairly poor, compared to OPC concrete. Hence, there is an inertia in the industry to use these systems, though satisfying the sustainability criteria, the fear remains whether it would satisfy the more important question of durability. In the study, pumpable concrete of one particular strength grade (M35) was chosen and its mechanical and durability properties were analyzed, both with and without carbonation. Also, a 15-parameter database is created for prediction of carbonation depth of LC3 concrete using Machine Learning (ML) algorithms. It is found that upon carbonation, there is no significant change in the durability of LC3 concrete. The depth of carbonation obtained is also fairly low (<6 mm in 56 days at 3% CO2 concentration at 25℃ and 65% RH) which illustrates that low pH of concrete with high levels of substitution of cement alone, is not the most significant factor for its carbonation performance. It is found in the study that sorptivity is a parameter that can illustrate the carbonation potential of concrete, whose values does not vary significantly upon carbonation. Also, it is observed that the ability of ML algorithms to predict complex phenomenon such as carbonation in concrete systems still requires further improvement due to the lack of data available (or several missing data) for these new concrete blends.
